# How to run the application
Here is a small section on how to properly prepare the environment, run the application on both emulated and physical devices and run unit tests. 
In the report, there are also images, for more help.

**Link to the Expo Snack if you want to run the app externally:**
https://snack.expo.dev/@dayynam/fitbuddy---md-final-project

The link is taking some time to load. I even got that the browser was not responding a few times, because of the number of assets. 
Application itself can also take some time to load, just be patient.
Eventually, everything should be loaded and working as intended.

## Run the app locally
This can be a bit less straightforward, but the whole process of running this application is not hard to do.

1. Download the FitBuddy file that is provided and unzip it. 
2. Open the folder using IDE. I was using VS Code, version 1.81.1
3. Now all Node modules can be installed. To do this, open a new terminal and type: 
`npm i`

**IMPORTANT** - Remember to have Node installed on the system. I was using the version v18.16.1

4. Now all packages are installed and we can run the Expo server. I was doing this in two ways:

 - 4.1. Running on a physical device
To do this I entered this command in the terminal:

`npx expo start --tunnel`

This way I was able to scan the QR code generated by the Expo using the Expo Go app (Android) or the Camera (iOS). I was using it mostly to test the app on iOS because I do not have Xcode.

Disclaimer - When using this command I was also able to run the application on emulators, but they could easily lose connection with Metro Bundler.


 - 4.2. Running on emulator
To do this I entered this command in the terminal:

`npx expo start`

Disclaimer - When using this command I was not able to run the application on physical devices. 

5. **Follow the next steps only if you are using emulators!** Now when the server is running we can start the Android Studio and Select “Virtual Device Manager”
6. After that, we can select the device and run it
7. If no devices are present, just click “Create Device” and select any device you want. Creating a new emulator is a simple process, so I will omit explaining it here

## Unit tests
Because Expo Snack does not provide a terminal, unit tests can only be run on a local IDE. The process is simple - follow the steps up to and including point 3. in the “Run the app locally” section. At this stage, all dependencies (Node modules) are installed, and the terminal is opened. To run the tests simply put this command in the terminal:

`npx jest`

Now all tests should run


## The Image Paths Script

**IMPORTANT!** This script does not need to be run in the current version of the application. 
The file from which the application gets all image paths is already generated. 
This instruction is more of a reference on how the file was generated in the first place.

Similarly, follow the steps up to point 3. in the “Run the app locally” section, just as for the Unit tests. 
When being in the terminal you need to run this command:

`node .\generateImagePathArray.js`

Now the file called generatedImagePathArray.js is created and from this file, the App.js takes all image sources/paths.
